To ensure your SplitBite demo runs perfectly, here is a structured README.md file you can use. This guide covers the specific order of operations for Java, Python, and the React frontend, including the ngrok configuration required for your presentation.

🍕 SplitBite: Hyperlocal Food Bill Splitter
This guide outlines the steps to launch the Java backend, Python AI service, and React frontend using VS Code.

🚀 Step 1: Database Setup (PostgreSQL)
Open pgAdmin or your terminal.

Create a database named splitbite.

Run the following command to ensure a clean state for your demo:

SQL
TRUNCATE TABLE orders RESTART IDENTITY;
🐍 Step 2: Python AI Service (Port 8000)
Open a terminal in the /python folder.

Install dependencies:

Bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
Run the server:

Bash
python -m uvicorn main:app --reload --port 8000
Important: Open a new terminal and expose this port via ngrok:

Bash
ngrok http 8000
Copy the generated https://... URL for the next step.

☕ Step 3: Java Spring Boot Backend (Port 8080)
Open the project in VS Code (ensure the Extension Pack for Java is installed).

Go to src/main/java/com/splitbite/controller/OrderController.java.

Update the pythonServiceUrl with your Python ngrok URL from Step 2.

Run the application via the Run button or F5.

Important: Open a new terminal and expose this port via ngrok:

Bash
ngrok http 8080
Copy this https://... URL; this is your Main API URL.

💻 Step 4: React Frontend (Vite)
Open a terminal in the /frontend folder.

Install dependencies:

Bash
npm install
Update the NGROK_URL in join.jsx, create.jsx, and TrackingPage.jsx with your Java ngrok URL from Step 3 [cite: 2026-02-12, 2026-02-18].

Launch the frontend:

Bash
npm run dev
🛠️ Demo Workflow
Host (Person 1): Open the local Vite link, enter ₹100, and click "Host Room."

Joiner (Person 2): Open the Java ngrok URL on a second device, find the host on the radar, enter ₹20, and "Join."

Delivery: Host clicks "Confirm Food Received" on their tracking page.

OTP Handshake: Joiner gives the 4-digit OTP shown on their screen to the Host to verify the split.